Title: Multi-institutional MRI-based radiomic pilot study to measure the variations between scanner vendors and imaging sessions
Authors: Duong S, Lee D, Glide-Hurst C, Paliwal B, Crosby J, Boss M, Cui Y, Huang M, Li H, Sheikh K, Kim T, Monroe J, Oh JH, Xiao Y, Sohn JW
Journal: Frontiers in oncology
Year: 2026
PMID: 41853315
DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2026.1686601
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/41853315/

Abstract:
Multi-institutional clinical trials frequently use MRI imaging for critical decisions and guidance for medical treatments. Collecting and analyzing images produced by various MR vendors and models is quite difficult since image quality can be highly variable. No unifying quality control targeting protocol studies exists to ensure MRI images used in that study are comparable. This project will investigate variations between imaging sessions and between various scanners using radiomic parameters from prototype MRI QA phantom. To develop a 3D radiomic phantom for quantifying radiomic feature consistency between MRI scanners across multi-institutions. The prototype phantom consists of five 3D-printed objects (3 grid and 2 egg-shape) using Polylactic Acid (PLA) with/without 20% wood particles placed in a water container. The grid objects consisted of PLA scaffolding with 245 cubic voids (flood-filled by water) stacked in 7rows x 7columns x 5layers with volumes of 3x3x3 mm The radiomic feature consistency varied across objects with less reproducibility for the egg-shaped objects and more reproducibility for the grid objects, with slightly better reproducibility for T1w than T2w sequences. The GE scanner demonstrated better reproducibility than the other scanners. Both ViewRay scanners showed consistency for acquisitions with the TrueFISP sequence; the median CV of 107 radiomic features between objects was <10%). The consistency was summarized in a heat map. Some radiomic features showed significant intra-scanner variations. This study demonstrated that a standardized radiomic phantom is required to characterize individual scanners and MR sequences for establishing the baseline of radiomic features, which could be important for multi-institutional radiomic studies using MRI.